I. Collaborating on GitHub 

    A. Make a fork of the repo
        1. A fork will be a copy at the time of forking - there is no syncing between the two
    B. You are now able to work on your own repo without affecting the main one. 
        1. This allows for the splitting of work leaving the main branch stable (not where you do development) and give you a space to do development (the branch off of main). 
        2. If you screw up thats no problem because you have a place that is separate. 
        3. Question: How do you update the fork to get new things that have been added to the main repo
    C. Things you can now go and do
        1. Go to GitHub and look up area of interest - fork and then try to work some things out for yourself 
        2. Good place to start is to look at their "good first issues" 
      * galletilance - kviz project 

II. Introduction to Data Science Tools

    A. What is Data Science
        1. Something that is very very hard
        2. At its core 
            a. finding relationships between different things 
            b. using the data that we have to make those connections
                i. even including all of the information that we have there remains randomness which could influence the situation
            c. example: the air tempurature of the room may be impacted by how many people are in the room, the pressure, etc.
        3. Models
            a. will always be "wrong" - but some models are useful
                i. doesn't need to match data exactly, just needs to do it well enough or give some indication of the pattern of data
    B. Confirmation Bias
        1. Challenges of Data Science
            a. a set of examples may not always be representative of the underlying rule 
            b. there may be infinitely many rules that match the examples provided
            c. rules and/or examples may change over time 
        2. Positive vs. Negative Examples
            a. if you have a specific hypothesis they either follow your hypothesis (+) or they do not follow your hypothesis (-)
                i. good practice is having equal numbers of positive and negative examples 
            b. All possible examples 
                i. the rule
                    - your hypothesis 
                * this shows that there can be results that follow the rule but not your hypothesis (shows that hypothesis is false)
                * you want to find the ones that are negative for your hypothesis but follow the rule because it does not support your hypothesis and you should move to try a different hypothesis 
        3. Sometimes there just randomness - other times it is a lack of information that makes it look random  
    C. Data Science Workflow (simplified)

             Process Data --> Explore Data --> Extract Features --> Create Model
               |                  |                |                   |
               |<-----------------|<--------------<|------------------<|

        1. Data is everything (process)
            a. without good data you cannot model properly 
            b. ex: if all you have is the temperature - you are likely not able to model a companies performance very well 
        2. Know your data (exlore)
            a. you should be an expert of your own data 
            b. how can you expect a model to describe good relationships if you cannot 
            c. be able to explain the data and meaningful relationships (that you have identified)
        3. What are you going to use to model (feature)
            a. think about the data that you have and what the best way to use it would be
            b. transforming your data into a meaningful configuration to answer your question
        4. Veryyyy end (Create model)
            a. a very small part of data science
            b. if the foundations or previous steps of the process are unstable or not flushed out, you will likely get a poor model
            c. biggest bang for your buck will come from the previous 3 steps
            d. what features did you find that are the most relevant for your task
    D. Types of Data
        1. Records 
            a. vectors 
            b. example: (Name, Age, Balance) -> ("John", 20, 100)
                i. would be stored in a spreadsheet
        2. Graphs 
            a. nodes connected by edges 
                i. can be directed or undirected 
                    - directed (you follow someone on instagram but they don't follow you)
                    - undirected (you both follow each other)
            b. can be represented as adjaceny matrix 
                i. matrix that says if there is an edge between two nodes
        3. Images  
            a. pixels
            b. 3D matrix of red, green, blue matrix 
            c. matrix organized in such a way that the pixel intensity value is that of the top left corner for example
        4. Corpus of Documents 
            a. text 
            b. find some words that are important others that are not 
                i. "the" is not typically meaningful but something like "brain" might be
    E. Types of Learning
        1. Unsupervised Learning
            a. Goal : finda interesting structure in the data
            b. ex: there are naturally occuring groupings (clusters) in the data set
            c. what are some of the linear algebraic properties of the matrix of data? what does that tell me about the data?
                i. is there a lot of variation, is it balanced
        2. Supervised Learning
            a. finding patterns in the data and then predicting things based upon it
            



            
        
    
    
 